Section 19/README.md, before:

# Section 19 - Setting Up Git and Deployment

**About:** In this section, let's actually deploy the Forkify projec to a live server, or as we can also say, we will host the application on the internet to share it with everyone. We will do deployment using an amazing and free service called Netlify. We will also learn the fundamentals of Git, which is a version control software and it is something that every professional developer uses. So, you will definitely need Git on your development job and so, it is a good idea to learn it.

## Table of Content

- [Section 19 - Setting Up Git and Deployment](#section-19---setting-up-git-and-deployment)
  - [Table of Content](#table-of-content)
  - [Lessons Learned](#lessons-learned)
    - [Simple Deployment with Netlify](#simple-deployment-with-netlify)
    - [Setting Up Git and GitHub](#setting-up-git-and-github)
    - [Git Fundamentals](#git-fundamentals)
    - [Pushing to GitHub](#pushing-to-github)
  - [Author](#author)

## Lessons Learned

### Simple Deployment with Netlify

- Before we can deploy our application to Netlify, we need to create the final bundle of our application by running the `build` command in the [package.json](../Section%2018/package.json) file.
- So, up until this point, we have always used the `start` command but, that only works for development because the final output will actually contain the development server; and also, the code is not being compressed and that code is not being eliminated while in development.
- Once you run the build command, the final code is compressed and ready to be shipped to deployment.
- Once that is done, we are ready to go Netlify and deploy this project.
- Netlify is a free service that lets us developers deploy static webpages or static web apps.
- With static, we mean that the application only contains HTML, CSS, and JS, and some images. But no database or server side code.
- Basically, Netlify only works for frontend applications like the one that we just built.
- So, netlify is really an amazing service. It is extremely easy to set up and to use. It has a very generous free plan and it contains a lot of great features that you can also use for free.
- One of these features is called continuous integration with git, which we will use a bit later in the section.
- Deploying the web app by uploading files on Netlify.

### Setting Up Git and GitHub

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
  - It is a version constrol system i.e. it is a software that runs on your computer and you can basically use Git to save snapshots of your code overtime.
  - Then if you need, you can go back to an older version of your code if you need to recover some mistake, for example.
  - This is really just a tip of the iceberg of everything that you can do with Git.
  - Downloading and Installing Git
- Repository (Repo)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/bhoamikhona)
  - Creating an account and setting it up
- Configuring Git and GitHub

### Git Fundamentals

- `.gitignore` file
- `git status`
- `git add -A`
- `git commit -m "message"`
- `git reset --hard HEAD`
  - It goes back to the previous commit before you commit the code that you want to reverse.
- `git log`
  - To view all the previous commits
  - You will see all the commits with their IDs. Copy the ID of the commit you want to reset the code to.
  - To get out of the git log, type Q for quit. NOTE: ctrl + c will not work here.
- `git reset --hard commitID`
  - This will reset the code back to the commit you passed the ID of.
  - However, moving between commits like this is a little bit dangerous. So instead, when we plan on doing a lot of changes, we usually simply create a new branch.
- `git branch`
  - This will simply list all the branches that we currently have.
  - To close it, you need to write a `Q`.
- `git branch branchName`
  - This creates a new branch with the name that is provided.
  - This new branch is basically going to be a copy of the current master branch, in which we can develop new codes and add new features without affecting the code that is in the master branch.
  - So, it is basically a parallel track in which we can develop a new code, but without affecting the original code that we had before, and which we knew was already working.
  - So, this is a great way of preventing bugs in our main code base.
- `git checkout branchName`
  - This will switch the current branch to the one that we passed the name of.
- `git merge branchName`
  - This will merge the current working branch with the branch whose name is provided in the command.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Usually, we never work in the master branch.
>
> We simply add new features in a different branch and once we are don, we merge these two branches together.
>
> If there is an error or something is not working, we can always go back to what it was before.

> [!TIP]
>
> Use the Git Cheat Sheet. You can find it right here:
>
> [git-cheat-sheet.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/16383761/git-cheat-sheet.pdf)

### Pushing to GitHub

- Creating a new repo on GitHub
- Connecting local repo with the one on GitHub
- `git push origin branchName`
- README.md file
- `touch fileName`
- Markdown
-

## Author

- [@bhoamikhona](https://github.com/bhoamikhona)

Commit message:

Setting Up Continuous Integration with Netlify

Section 19/README.md, after:

# Section 19 - Setting Up Git and Deployment

**About:** In this section, let's actually deploy the Forkify projec to a live server, or as we can also say, we will host the application on the internet to share it with everyone. We will do deployment using an amazing and free service called Netlify. We will also learn the fundamentals of Git, which is a version control software and it is something that every professional developer uses. So, you will definitely need Git on your development job and so, it is a good idea to learn it.

## Table of Content

- [Section 19 - Setting Up Git and Deployment](#section-19---setting-up-git-and-deployment)
  - [Table of Content](#table-of-content)
  - [Lessons Learned](#lessons-learned)
    - [Simple Deployment with Netlify](#simple-deployment-with-netlify)
    - [Setting Up Git and GitHub](#setting-up-git-and-github)
    - [Git Fundamentals](#git-fundamentals)
    - [Pushing to GitHub](#pushing-to-github)
    - [Setting Up Continuous Integration with Netlify](#setting-up-continuous-integration-with-netlify)
  - [Author](#author)

## Lessons Learned

### Simple Deployment with Netlify

- Before we can deploy our application to Netlify, we need to create the final bundle of our application by running the `build` command in the [package.json](../Section%2018/package.json) file.
- So, up until this point, we have always used the `start` command but, that only works for development because the final output will actually contain the development server; and also, the code is not being compressed and that code is not being eliminated while in development.
- Once you run the build command, the final code is compressed and ready to be shipped to deployment.
- Once that is done, we are ready to go Netlify and deploy this project.
- Netlify is a free service that lets us developers deploy static webpages or static web apps.
- With static, we mean that the application only contains HTML, CSS, and JS, and some images. But no database or server side code.
- Basically, Netlify only works for frontend applications like the one that we just built.
- So, netlify is really an amazing service. It is extremely easy to set up and to use. It has a very generous free plan and it contains a lot of great features that you can also use for free.
- One of these features is called continuous integration with git, which we will use a bit later in the section.
- Deploying the web app by uploading files on Netlify.

### Setting Up Git and GitHub

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
  - It is a version constrol system i.e. it is a software that runs on your computer and you can basically use Git to save snapshots of your code overtime.
  - Then if you need, you can go back to an older version of your code if you need to recover some mistake, for example.
  - This is really just a tip of the iceberg of everything that you can do with Git.
  - Downloading and Installing Git
- Repository (Repo)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/bhoamikhona)
  - Creating an account and setting it up
- Configuring Git and GitHub

### Git Fundamentals

- `.gitignore` file
- `git status`
- `git add -A`
- `git commit -m "message"`
- `git reset --hard HEAD`
  - It goes back to the previous commit before you commit the code that you want to reverse.
- `git log`
  - To view all the previous commits
  - You will see all the commits with their IDs. Copy the ID of the commit you want to reset the code to.
  - To get out of the git log, type Q for quit. NOTE: ctrl + c will not work here.
- `git reset --hard commitID`
  - This will reset the code back to the commit you passed the ID of.
  - However, moving between commits like this is a little bit dangerous. So instead, when we plan on doing a lot of changes, we usually simply create a new branch.
- `git branch`
  - This will simply list all the branches that we currently have.
  - To close it, you need to write a `Q`.
- `git branch branchName`
  - This creates a new branch with the name that is provided.
  - This new branch is basically going to be a copy of the current master branch, in which we can develop new codes and add new features without affecting the code that is in the master branch.
  - So, it is basically a parallel track in which we can develop a new code, but without affecting the original code that we had before, and which we knew was already working.
  - So, this is a great way of preventing bugs in our main code base.
- `git checkout branchName`
  - This will switch the current branch to the one that we passed the name of.
- `git merge branchName`
  - This will merge the current working branch with the branch whose name is provided in the command.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Usually, we never work in the master branch.
>
> We simply add new features in a different branch and once we are don, we merge these two branches together.
>
> If there is an error or something is not working, we can always go back to what it was before.

> [!TIP]
>
> Use the Git Cheat Sheet. You can find it right here:
>
> [git-cheat-sheet.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/16383761/git-cheat-sheet.pdf)

### Pushing to GitHub

- Creating a new repo on GitHub
- Connecting local repo with the one on GitHub
- `git push origin branchName`
- README.md file
- `touch fileName`
- Markdown

### Setting Up Continuous Integration with Netlify

## Author

- [@bhoamikhona](https://github.com/bhoamikhona)
